---
layout: post
title:  "CryptDB"
date:   2015-10-19 20:30
permalink: cryptdb 
---

The problem CryptDB solves is how to get useful functionality out of database
that's not trusted.  This became a compelling problem relatively recently due
to two trends.  First the internet has dramatically increased the attack
surface of most applications increasing the importance of security -- one must
not only worry about dishonest employees but also sophisticated global
cybercrime organizations.  Second, is the advent of cloud.  For the first time,
users are compelled to store large amounts of data off premise on hardware
owned and operated by third parties.  To the extent they can achieve provable
security guarantees that don't rely on trusting large corporations (who are
legally compelled to comply with untrustworthy governments), trust in and
adoption of the cloud should increase dramatically.

There is, of course, a difficult trade-off here between functionality of the
database and data leakage.  The more sophisticated queries an application
needs, the less secure an encryption scheme can be used for the data, reducing
overall security of the system as argued by [Naveed et al.](http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/um/people/senyk/pubs/edb.pdf)
What's most worrying about this potential trade-off is how unintuitive the risk
is.  It seems to me that users are quite unlikely to have sufficient experience
to work out the trade-offs involved meaning they'll likely make significant errors.
That said, overall I do believe this paper is valuable.  I suspect in the long
term it will be used in conjunction with other security practices (firewalls,
physical security, etc) to provide a "defense in depth" approach that we're
lacking in modern systems.
